First Corinthians 13:4, 7 tell us:
“Love is patient and kind”
and “bears all things,
believes all things,
hopes all things, endures all things.”
Our dramatization helped us
to see how love can adapt
to changing needs and circumstances.
But wouldn’t it be nice
to talk with some real-life examples
of those who have developed such skills?
Well, we have a special treat.
A longtime faithful couple
has joined us in the studio
—William and Angela Samuelson,
who serve at Patterson Bethel
in the United States.
Now, of course,
we’ve known each other for decades,
and I know you as Bill and Angie,
so that’s the way I’ll refer to you.
So nice that you
could be here and be interviewed.
What’s helped you both
maintain a happy marriage?
Well, we work as a team,
so we always check
with each other
before making decisions,
even in areas
where we wouldn’t necessarily have to
—it would be OK to go ahead.
But just out of respect,
we talk with each other
about any decisions that we make.
And, you know, Brother Morris,
we’ve been married 60 years now,
and we’ve never really had
a real serious argument.
We’ve had some disagreements
but nothing ever serious.
And whenever we have
those kind of words, why, we never use
demeaning language or say
derogatory things about each other,
and that makes me very happy.
Yeah, that’s commendable.
Early in our marriage,
there was one occasion
when Angie was upset
with me about something
—it could’ve been anything—
and in the conversation,
it obviously showed in her tone of voice.
So I explained to her
that she could say anything she wanted
as long as she smiled
when she said it.
Well, she tried,
and we both had a good laugh.
It’s very hard
to stay mad when you’re smiling.
Smiling—very, very good advice.
What about in the congregation?
How have you been able
to show each other honor there?
Well, when we have assignments
from the platform,
either of us, we work together.
Angie is much better
with grammar
and pronunciation than I am,
and so I’ll check
with her to make sure
that I’m saying things
as correctly as possible.
And she checks with me
on prophetic significance, for example,
or theocratic understanding
or procedure and timing.
Yes, and something
that’s very important
is when we do check
with each other, we’re not thin-skinned
about the advice
that we want to give each other.
I’ll call it advice.
And that makes life a lot easier.
We don’t get angry
because we’ve been told
we need to improve on something.
That’s excellent.
You also spent a long time
in the traveling work
before coming to Bethel.
We knew you in the traveling work
—early ’70’s and then later
when we were down South
and you were assigned down there.
What did you learn
about showing honor
in that avenue of service?
Well, as you say,
we were in the traveling work
for 33 years, just over.
And for most of those years,
we would have other assignments.
I would be working with the district
—now regional—
convention organization
or other assignments,
and it meant
that Angie would be alone
in the congregation.
She never complained;
nor did she become unduly inquisitive
about my assignment,
which sometimes would’ve been confidential.
When we had
an unexpected move that came up,
a change of assignment somewhere,
Angie would just pack
and be ready to go.
That’s right.
That was my job—packing.
And in the field ministry, Brother Morris,
we would usually be
in separate car groups
because Bill would work with the brothers
and I would work with the sisters.
And I really appreciated the fact
that he always made sure
I had a safe driver.
It worked out most of the time.
And if we had a territory
that was a little scary,
why, he made sure
that we were safe in the territory.
So I appreciated that very much.
In one congregation,
(you know, things
don’t always go the way we plan)
the brother scheduling the meals
had scheduled two families
for the same noon meal for us.
The one sister was deaf;
and she had always had
the traveling brother on a certain day;
and she didn’t hear
when she was told it wouldn’t be that day.
So she had gone ahead
and prepared a meal.
In the meantime,
we had been assigned to another home,
where they served us a full course
—or courses—
of an Italian meal.
While we were eating, we found out
that the other sister was waiting for us.
She would’ve been highly offended
if somebody didn’t come.
So I went to the Kingdom Hall
and handled the meeting
for field service after the meal,
and Angie went to the sister.
That sister would probably
still be mad at me if Angie hadn’t gone.
Boy, was I sleepy
that afternoon after two big meals.
I bet.
Well, you handled that very Christlike.
Now, as we mentioned,
your current assignment is here at Bethel.
How have you navigated
the unique challenges
of this form of service
while still honoring one another?
Well, as you know,
we work in different departments,
but we respect that some things
are confidential to that department.
So we don’t make
the work of our department
a major part of our conversation.
We could have an energy problem
at the end of the day after working all day,
so Bill is very considerate
about accepting too many social invitations.
Isn’t that nice?
And so we respect
each other’s limitations
when it comes to physical
and just energy in general.
Well, that’s certainly honoring each other.
Well, Bill and Angie,
those were practical
and encouraging comments.
We really thank you so much
for taking the time
and allowing us to interview you,
and we really appreciate
your good example all these decades.
Well, thank you.
Thank you.